Last, we have rendering patterns.
Cuz yeah, we can render content in
a lot of different ways nowadays and
knowing how and where to fetch your data
is key to your applications performance.
Now maybe you're using a framework or
some other library or maybe just React
standalone, but they often all use
different patterns like client-site
rendering, static rendering, maybe
even incremental static regeneration,
service site rendering and so on.
Now, I'm not here to talk about which
pattern is the best which is the worst.
They all have trade-offs,
best use cases and so on.
Now before we start talking about
the different rendering patterns,
something to keep in
mind is the Web Vitals.
And this is a set of useful
measurements that Chrome provides and
also uses in their search index to measure
how well your website performs and
how your users experience it.
Now, a subset of that is
called your Core Web Vitals.
So here for
example we have the Time to First Byte.
So that's how long it takes when
a user requests a website for
your server to respond with the data.
So before the browser gets the first bytes
in order to first execute all that stuff.
Then we have the First Contentful Paint.
So whenever your user actually sees
something useful to the screen for
the first time.
Then we also have
the Largest Contentful Paint.
So the largest component has loaded maybe
a big image or any large component.
And then also Time to Interactive
which is the time it takes
before user can actually click on your
components and it actually does something.
Cumulative Layout Shift, like we saw
before a layout shift is just annoying for
your users.
We don't want to load a website and
then stuff randomly renders in.
You've probably experienced,
it is a very frustrating experience.
And then there's also First Input Delay
which is the time for when the user
interacts with the page and when the event
handlers are actually able to run.
Now, we will be covering
a couple of terms.
Compiling like we saw before,
the execution time,
hydration which is attaching event and
this will be more clear later on, but
it's attaching the handlers to
those static DOM nodes when they're
just HTML and they're not interactive yet.
Idle, the browser's state
when it's not doing anything,
browser's idle it will
prefetch certain resources.
Main thread, parsing, processing,
this will make sense later.